README.md, before:

This is an example of an authenticated MCP server.

Under the hood, it uses the better-auth ([docs](https://better-auth.com/docs/introduction) | [repo](https://github.com/better-auth/better-auth)) library to handle the auth for the MCP server.

## Auth Preamble

MCP Remote Auth requires an OAuth 2.1 flow to be implemented.

In this case, the Worker in this repo is both the Resource Server and the Authorization Server, but for the purposes of this app, actual user authorization is handled by the GitHub social provider (also with Better Auth).

If you need a refresher on OAuth concepts (like Resource Servers, Authorization Servers, PKCE, etc.), do some googlin'.

## Setting up the app

Copy the sample `.dev.vars-sample` file to `.dev.vars` and fill in the values.

```sh
cp .dev.vars-sample .dev.vars
```

A few notes on the configuration values:

- `BETTER_AUTH_URL` is the URL of the Better Auth server. Locally, this is `http://localhost:5342`.
- `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET` is the secret key for the Better Auth server.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` is the client ID of the GitHub OAuth app.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` is the client secret of the GitHub OAuth app.


**To create a GitHub OAuth app:**

- Visit the GitHub docs on [creating an OAuth app](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app) and follow the instructions to create an OAuth app.

- Set the `Authorization callback URL` to `http://localhost:5342/api/auth/callback/github`.
- Set the `Homepage URL` to `http://localhost:5342`
- Click continue
- Copy the Client ID to the `.dev.vars` file.
- Create a Client Secret and copy it to the `.dev.vars` file.

## Testing the OAuth Flow

Boot up the model context protocol inspector:

```sh
pnpx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
# or
pnpm run mcp:inspect
```

Open the inspector, and look for the button labeled "Open Auth Settings". Should be next to some copy that says "Need to configure authentication?".

Choose the "Guided Oauth Flow" and go through each step.

> **NOTE** You will need to run your app with the env var `CORS_ENVIRONMENT` set to `local` for the inspector to work with the api.


### Example Redirect URL for an MCP Client

The expected flow is that our Worker will return a URL to an MCP client where it can then login and authenticate itself.

```
http://localhost:5342/api/auth/mcp/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=GvZfQIQgTMViansKDtxuWkEnmFVVfqxO&code_challenge=44wL43aOBlIthKdeqi1sMpdMpLpp1_yNQG96o3JuA6E&code_challenge_method=S256&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A6274%2Foauth%2Fcallback%2Fdebug&scope=openid+profile+email&resource=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A5342%2F
```

## Quirks

### Re-implementation of the GitHub sign-in

In the `/login` route, we call `auth.api.signInSocial` to redirect the user to the GitHub sign-in page.

This is a hack, since the routes mounted for social sign-in (which themselves use `auth.api.signInSocial`) expect POST requests from a frontend, which we cannot perform without wiring up some javascript from the client. I'm trying to avoid adding any UI to this thing.

### Why so much CORS?

The MCP inspector makes requests directly from the browser, so we need to set up CORS to allow the inspector to make requests to our app.

In production, we would expect an MCP Client to make these requests from a server, so CORS can be handled differently.

### Incorrect scope: `offline_access`

The `offline_access` scope is not supported _unless_ you also send `prompt=consent` in the request, and provide a UI for the user to consent to offline storage of their information.

I saw this error when I used the step-by-step OAuth debugging flow when using `pnpx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector`.

## Development

```sh
pnpm i
pnpm run dev
```

If you change the better-auth config, you might need to regenerate the auth tables in drizzle:

```sh
pnpm run auth:generate
```


## TODOs

- [ ] Clean up CORS code, only add CORS when the env var `CORS_ENVIRONMENT` is set to `local`

- [ ] Evaluate

Commit message:

Factor out cors, reshuffle README, factor out more logic

README.md, after:

This is an example of an authenticated MCP server.

Under the hood, it uses the better-auth ([docs](https://better-auth.com/docs/introduction) | [repo](https://github.com/better-auth/better-auth)) library to handle the auth for the MCP server.

## Auth Preamble

MCP Remote Auth requires an OAuth 2.1 flow to be implemented.

In this case, the Worker in this repo is both the Resource Server and the Authorization Server, but for the purposes of this app, actual user authorization is handled by the GitHub social provider (also with Better Auth).

If you need a refresher on OAuth concepts (like Resource Servers, Authorization Servers, PKCE, etc.), do some googlin'.

## Setting up the app

Copy the sample `.dev.vars-sample` file to `.dev.vars` and fill in the values.

```sh
cp .dev.vars-sample .dev.vars
```

A few notes on the configuration values:

- `BETTER_AUTH_URL` is the URL of the Better Auth server. Locally, this is `http://localhost:5342`.
- `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET` is the secret key for the Better Auth server.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` is the client ID of the GitHub OAuth app.
- `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` is the client secret of the GitHub OAuth app.


**To create a GitHub OAuth app:**

- Visit the GitHub docs on [creating an OAuth app](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app) and follow the instructions to create an OAuth app.

- Set the `Authorization callback URL` to `http://localhost:5342/api/auth/callback/github`.
- Set the `Homepage URL` to `http://localhost:5342`
- Click continue
- Copy the Client ID to the `.dev.vars` file.
- Create a Client Secret and copy it to the `.dev.vars` file.

## Testing the OAuth Flow

Boot up the model context protocol inspector:

```sh
pnpx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
# or
pnpm run mcp:inspect
```

Open the inspector, and look for the button labeled "Open Auth Settings". Should be next to some copy that says "Need to configure authentication?".

Choose the "Guided Oauth Flow" and go through each step.

> **NOTE** You will need to run your app with the env var `CORS_ENVIRONMENT` set to `local` for the inspector to work with the api.


### Example Redirect URL for an MCP Client

The expected flow is that our Worker will return a URL to an MCP client where it can then login and authenticate itself.

```
http://localhost:5342/api/auth/mcp/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=GvZfQIQgTMViansKDtxuWkEnmFVVfqxO&code_challenge=44wL43aOBlIthKdeqi1sMpdMpLpp1_yNQG96o3JuA6E&code_challenge_method=S256&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A6274%2Foauth%2Fcallback%2Fdebug&scope=openid+profile+email&resource=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A5342%2F
```

## Development

After configuring `.dev.vars` (see above), install dependencies and run the migrations:

```sh
pnpm i
pnpm db:touch
pnpm db:generate
pnpm db:migrate
pnpm run dev
```

If you change any env vars, you should re-run typegen:

```sh
pnpm cf-typegen
```

If you change the better-auth config, you might need to regenerate the auth tables in Drizzle (and rerun migrations):

```sh
pnpm run auth:generate
pnpm db:migrate
```

## Quirks

### Re-implementation of the GitHub sign-in

In the `/login` route, we call `auth.api.signInSocial` to redirect the user to the GitHub sign-in page.

This is a hack, since the routes mounted for social sign-in (which themselves use `auth.api.signInSocial`) expect POST requests from a frontend, which we cannot perform without wiring up some javascript from the client. I'm trying to avoid adding any UI to this thing.

### Why so much CORS?

The MCP inspector makes requests directly from the browser, so we need to set up CORS to allow the inspector to make requests to our app.

In production, we would expect an MCP Client to make these requests from a server, so CORS can be handled differently.

### Incorrect scope: `offline_access`

The `offline_access` scope is not supported _unless_ you also send `prompt=consent` in the request, and provide a UI for the user to consent to offline storage of their information.

I saw this error when I used the step-by-step OAuth debugging flow when using `pnpx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector`.

### Duplicate better-auth configs

There is the app config in `src/lib/auth.ts`, and the auth config in `better-auth.config.ts`.

These technically serve different purposes but they are basically the same thing.

I haven't yet thought about how to make them share logic in a cleaner way.

## TODOs

- [ ] Clean up CORS code, only add CORS when the env var `CORS_ENVIRONMENT` is set to `local`

- [ ] Evaluate
